Q: Why do I need to register for a user name and password? A: By registering for a user name and password you will be able to view your account information, change your address, use the Deferment Assistant (FFEL only), and make payments at our site. Using the log in process will allow us to customize information according to the types of loan(s) that ACS services for you. By not logging in, you will only have access to general information. [Back to top]

Q: How do I register? A: Click on the Register button on the right side of the Borrower Services home page. Enter your social security number, your date of birth, and zip code. Once you have entered the required fields, create a user name and password (both need to be at least 6 characters). You will also be asked to create a "hint question" that will be asked if you forget your password. [Back to top] 

Q: What if I forget my user name and/or password? A: Just click on the Forgot Password button on the Borrower Services home page. This page will allow you to retrieve both your user name and password. To obtain your user name, enter your social security number and password, and click on Get User Name. If you forget your password, enter your social security number and click on Get Hint. You will be asked the hint question you entered during the registration process. Once you have answered this question correctly, you will be allowed to set up a new password. [Back to top] 

Q: What if I no longer wish my account information to be displayed? A: Enter your user name and password and click on the Disable Account button at the Borrower Services home page. You will be given instructions on disabling your account access. [Back to top] 

Q: What if I have disabled my account access and now wish to restore this access? A: You will need to contact the Borrower Services Department of the ACS division that services your student loan account. The easiest way to do this is to enter the Guest Services link, select the ACS division that services your loan, and click the Contact Us link. [Back to top] 

Q: What is the difference between FFEL and CPS? A: They are two completely different loan programs, both serviced by ACS. FFEL loans consist of Stafford loans, Consolidated loans, and PLUS loans. CPS loans include Federal Perkins loans, Health (HPSL) loans, and Nursing (NSL) loans. Your account information is not co-mingled. Therefore, if you have FFEL and CPS loans, and you need to change your address, you will need to change it in both programs. [Back to top] 

Q: Do I need to register to view my account online? A: Yes, you need to register the first time you want to view your account status. After you register, you will only need to enter your user name and password in order to view your account in the future. [Back to top] 

Q: May I get additional student loans from ACS? A: ACS is not a lending institution. You should contact the financial aid office of your school for information about obtaining additional student loans. [ Back to top ] [Back to top] 
